I am going to show you
a demo of the pod lifecycle.
I am in the directory pod lifecycle
in the kubernetes course.
And here I have a lifecycle yaml file.
This is a deployment
and in the pod specification,
I have an init container.
So this is the first container that is going to be executed.
This is a separate container,
just like I show you in the previous lecture.
So we also define an image
and a command that will be executed.
This container is just going to sleep 10 seconds
and then exits.
Then we have our main container,
the lifecycle container.
Also image busybox.
And it's going to write
to a file, the date
and it's going to say it's running.
So the file is slash timing.
Then we're going to echo the app is running
and then we're going to sleep for 120 seconds.
We have a readiness probe.
This is also going to write to the slash timing file
so that we have a nice overview of the timings.
The liveness probe,
the lifecycle,
and in the lifecycle, we have a post start and a pre stop.
So these are the hooks that we're going to use.
And using those hooks we can execute a command
in our main container.
So here we're also going to write to slash timing,
just to see when this command will execute.
And then the pre stop is also going to write to our file
and then it's going to sleep for 10 seconds.
In the init container,
it's not going to write because that is a separate container
so we would not get that information anyways.
We would have to use a volume to share information
between the init container and the main containers.
So let's run this.
And I'm going to show you this in a split screen.
So I'm going to use a tool called screen.
And I'm going to split my screen.
Here, at the top,
I'm going to run
watch N one
kubectl get pods.
There are no pods currently.
And then here, in this other screen, I'll create a pod,
and then I will also read this timings file.
Kubectl create minus F
over this lifecycle yaml file.
I will press enter, lifecycle created.
And now we can already see
that it's running the init container.
So the init container, which runs first.
Let me, kubectl execute minus I T.
You see now that the pod is initializing.
So I will do cat timings
or timing.
And we already have the main pod running.
So first we have running, that is the main container.
Then we have post start,
and then end post start 10 seconds later.
And now the readiness probe.
So when we tail this exit,
tail timing minus F.
It's gonna be easier.
So the main container starts,
now that says running.
Then we have the post start that starts,
so these two start together.
The main container and the hook,
the post start hook start together.
Takes 10 seconds.
And then we have the end post start
and then after the initial delay,
we have the readiness probe and the liveness probe.
So those will execute.
Both of them will execute
as long as the main container is alive.
The main container will be alive for 120 seconds.
So we still have stages running,
which means it's still alive.
We still see the liveness and the readiness probe.
We just have to wait,
I will just pause the video for a second
and wait until the container stops.
And now the container is completed.
And then the command is terminated
with exit code one three seven.
So the pod has been terminated
and the stop hook is also executed
but you don't see it anymore
because the sleep command has been terminated.
The pod is again running,
because remember the liveness check
will restart the container
when the probe fails.
So in this case the probe failed
because the command has been terminated.
What's gonna happen then
is that the liveness probe is going to restart container,
the readiness probe will make sure
that the container is not in ready status
so that there's no traffic sent to the container.
And when the container is started,
the readiness and the liveness probe
will do their checks again.
And when the readiness probe succeeds,
the appearance of the pod will be again added
to the service and the pod will start
serving traffic again.
So you can use this file and execute this on your own
system to see how this works.
This init container and the hooks are very useful to use
to execute commands of certain times of your pod lifecycle.